and what am i calling you by the way
what do you go by uh you can call me
pull yeah Paul okay yeah okay so let's
get started in just a second okay
and Paul where where are you joining us
from I'm currently in London UK okay
cool
yeah feeling nervous yeah so I might as
was lined up as maybe the backup last
week so I understood that I might be
getting on the show last week but since
I didn't I had the whole week to sort of
like ponder it and be anxious about it
yeah because obviously like airing your
dirty laundry in front of a live
audience as well as a nobody is is
actually quite a daunting thing but um
I'm super excited to be on I'm a fan of
the show yes kind of weird to be on this
side of the screen you know are we a
show is that what we are I kind of feel
like maybe that's just how I rationalize
it to make it seem less the one thing I
don't know okay no I mean I think it's a
good characterization it's just I didn't
realize it so Paul you're joining us
from the UK right I think we're we're
alive yay okay so our hypetrain did
something can you explain to me what a
hype train is me yeah like do you know
what that is I got a line from from I
mean the meme is it's a scam train so
all I know is this twitches latest scam
to draw more money other people who are
foolish enough to surrender it I guess
but okay I are constantly I've ever
gotten on one myself okay so Paul so
help us understand a little bit so for
those of you who saw an ad I apologize
but Paul was just filling us in a little
bit about how daunting it is to share
your dirty laundry over the Internet in
front of thousands of people and I
completely agree with you man it sounds
daunting so tell us help help me
understand a little bit about what we're
talking about today and how we can be
right so I mean when I submitted the
application I just put down in cell is a
bit of an attention-grabber I don't know
like I don't really identify with that
term
the raw definition of it applies right
so it stands for involuntary celibate
which isn't just another way of saying
basically you can't get a girlfriend
right and that's as far as that goes
it's okay it's a it's a loaded term if
you look it up it's all kinds of
nonsense or so you like to be an insult
you also have to be a misogynist you
also have to be part of a conspiracy so
I I leave all that I'm not a so she do
okay and and so you say that you kind of
don't you do identify with being in and
celery you don't identify with being no
I actually don't okay it seems I don't
even really know like the full
definition but like sorry the raw
definition applies but if you you I
guess to be officially a member of
whatever that's all about you have to be
a whole bunch of other things which I
hope don't apply because they sound
terrible like what like a misogynist
what I mean so I guess it's thought that
in cells were a product of their own
flaws which is that you know well they
of course they can't be attracted to
something they hate right so they hate
women but also I guess they also want to
be with them I don't know okay um I
don't think that's the case I'm I hope
it's not my case I'm sure you're sure if
you go down a line a questioning little
reveal it one way or another but I don't
think that applies to me because okay
some there's some you know ladies I like
and some I don't and isn't it it's not
because they're female or or not it's
just based on something else
I'm confused what's based on something
else
I mean whether or not I like someone
isn't based on their gender is what I'm
trying to say got it okay so what do you
identify with so what what are we
talking about if we're not talking about
the whole complex of what it means to be
an insult fine
what are we talking about I guess we I
guess we're just talking about like how
is it that I have failed I'm like I'm 35
in a couple of weeks and I've never had
a girlfriend like how is it that I'm in
this situation and how is it that I
can't seem to get out of it
sure so I think that sounds applicable
to twitch like yes so so I feel a little
bit it's weird that I'm I was the one
who's picked I feel like this probably a
lot of people in chat who envy the
position I'm in they would like to be
here instead but I'm hoping the AoE
healing thing is actually gonna be
relevant to more than just me right
I hope so too because it looks like
we're not gonna be healing in cells
today because you're not in itself so
we're gonna be young people okay yeah so
I I just got to say we got it we got it
I think this is gonna be really
hopefully helpful for you and if you are
just if you if you identify as a
full-blown insel with all of the
toxicity and hatred that I know that is
perceived as I love to talk to you if
you're watching on stream is this
something you can help with oh cuz it's
nothing to do with being a healthy gamer
right I don't even know if this is like
is this something you specialize in or
like do you really is what something
that I specialize in not having a friend
or or feeling itself you don't have to
be these things just as I specialize I
mean you know how to
approach this topic which one is being a
good because it's an insular or having
trouble finding a girlfriend the
laughter the one that applies in my case
yeah so am I an expert in that no okay
so so this may surprise people I'm not
an expert in pretty much any anything
that I'm not an expert in any person
that comes on stream right so my expert
in the person but obviously you you deal
with eggs X in your day job on a regular
basis you must be pretty good at dealing
with the kinds of issues they have and
obviously you purport to be about being
healthy gamer so you must be pretty
decent at dealing with with gamers but
so this this seems like the sideline to
that yeah so um so apologies if this
gets kind of academic but I think it's
kind of a good discussion AB so you said
I work with execs so I must be good at
the issues that they have that I
actually disagree with so I think the
biggest thing that makes me effective is
that I do not assume that a class of
people has a class of issues right so
like that's what's different like that's
a big part of who I am and I think part
of the reason that I help gamers is
because I don't think that their game or
issues like the whole problem around
game or mental health is that the rest
of the world treats them like they're a
different person and so we say like oh
you're suffering because you're a gamer
it's a gamer issue and they kind of like
marginalize and get keep a community my
whole belief is that like there aren't
executive issues there aren't gamer
issues there are just people issues and
each person is individual and each
person is unique and I'm not like an
expert in ADHD do I think I can help
people with ADHD absolutely do I think I
can help people who have trouble finding
a girlfriend absolutely have I struggled
and had a lot of shame and and just been
terrible around women absolutely okay
right so like all those things are true
but I I think my whole point is that
like you shouldn't think about yourself
as a class of person because you're
right so like if you think about it you
have your own unique challenges and just
because there's an AoE effect doesn't
mean that someone who's watching you is
going to learn from you like the AoE
healing understand this very carefully
okay
the AoE healing happens because you see
something happening you see something
that you think applies to you and then
you look within yourself and you go
through it in here it's not that you
learn it from out there you actually go
through it in here and then you change
does that make sense it makes sense
logically I don't know if I can relate
to it
I can certainly honor but I think if the
short answer that you're at like short
question that you're asking is do I
think I can help you absolutely sorry
sometimes you guys have to remember that
I'm an academic and if you ask me a
simple question I'm gonna give you a
really long answer that you didn't ask
for it so I apologize but that academic
distinct I mean I think it's important
understand reasons my anxiety a little
because I know we don't have a lot of
time sure why don't we have a lot of
time well I mean there's you've got a
like maximum a couple hours and then you
have to do something else right yeah
yeah I mean a couple hours no time well
to do what I mean it's me sure I mean
like part of me like because because
well you know I watch a show very
regularly and a lot of a lot of time
like these pearls of wisdom
sometimes even like profound pearls of
wisdom they almost seem counterintuitive
out of context come out of your mouth
and they're they're amazing that's
exciting to watch and it's interesting
to learn from and I want something like
that for me that I can pin up on my wall
and if as long as I remember it every
day I'll never be an N so again you know
that's a lot to put on you it's probably
impossible but that battery you ready
for the first you ready for the first
pearl is ready the how is it that you
already got one I think well I mean
because you gave it to me buddy so just
thinking think about the way that you're
approaching your problem right you're
you're thinking that some like I'm gonna
say something magical like so here's the
thing you go by Paul right in your mind
there's the Paul before and there is the
Paul after no no before before and after
was after me
for and after the wisdom right now that
you're gonna learn something here today
that you can stick on your wall and then
your life is gonna be different that's
what I'm hearing from you I mean that
would be nice but I don't know if that
means I'm two different people I think
to absorb whatever wisdom there is is
something that is not instantaneous but
I completely agree good so let's just
let's just look at that right because I
wonder if I'm with you and I think
you're us you're clearly a very smart
guy I think you're clearly a very
logical guy and when I repeat back to
you what I hear you start to poke holes
in it which is very good but also you're
the one who gave me the image of getting
a pearl of wisdom putting it up on your
wall and then like that's like clearly a
before/after moment right does that make
sense like that image is like before
it's on the wall Paul's life is a
particular way and if I give you the
pearl of wisdom if it happens and you
are transformed I mean I would be super
wouldn't it I don't actually believe it
that's a very feasible thing but I
completely agree and just because you
don't believe it's feasible doesn't mean
that you don't want it or you don't
fantasize about it
it doesn't mean that targets high you
know set lofty goals okay sure yeah okay
so let's just put a pin in that for a
second so help me understand a little
bit about so your corner quote problem
is that it would you call it a problem
is that you haven't been able to find a
girlfriend sure that seems like a
problem
you don't seem to be identifying with it
uh what makes you say that
Oh or just your response mistake on my
part
so would you say that that that's your
problem yeah I think so okay so help me
understand of hard to nail down but yeah
it if you could go over the details and
a high level that is the problem yes
okay so tell me about the details
come on you said if you gloss over the
details then yes so that implies that
there's something a little bit more
complicated to your situation that
involves the details so let's talk about
the details yeah I don't already know
where to start with that though okay
so tell me to pause for a second okay
okay can you just tell me a little bit
about where you grew up
sure like from from like what we're
starting when not like where did you
grow up well I grew up in a few places
after I moved around a lot yeah I moved
around a lot because of my dad's job and
he's the provider so we moved wherever
it if his job is moving we're moving
okay
it's a little bit of a fragmented kind
of so that mostly happened and like in
the primary school years which is I
don't know what you call that America
but like the first school you go to yeah
sure
so from like the first time we moved as
when I was five and then the next two
years seven and then again it went
online so you sort of like you develop a
few friendships but then you have to let
them go and start again on us and I've
quite you know every two years it's
pretty regular basis about eight Wow
what kind of work was he doing um he was
a nuclear safety officer or something
interesting yeah I don't know the
details but so worked in a nuclear power
plant it sounds like it was hard to kind
of like reset in terms of friends and
stuff like that I think you grow some
kind of detachment right you sort of
like get this idea that well friends a
temporary I'm kind of worried that that
is actually like something that I
subconsciously learned from from that
but also I was never really that good
with people anyway it just made the
problem worse like whenever like yeah
please I just had this memory like from
when I was in year 3 or whatever when
you're 8 years old it's pretty early on
and I had like a group project and I
didn't I think I think my mother even
got called in like the some time later
the teacher was had a concern about my
development
like I I I preferred I didn't want to do
the group project with other people I
just I had my own ideas and I guess I
didn't want to like convince them to do
what I wanted to do it would be much
easier if I just took all the materials
and built a thing myself
whatever we were doing no I'd rather do
it might do it by myself
which caused some some concern I guess
I'm not even sure if I'm remembering
this accurately at all because it's so
long ago but I I guess I have that
memory so I must journal true so it
sounds like you you know it was
troublesome to deal with other people
and it was actually easier to just live
on your own and that's that's what I do
like in my idle life last since that
since I left home I I live very much
alone yeah so what do you think about
that I think it suits me I completely
agree then so then the question is sort
of like well is it strange that I said
that no because you this is it's almost
it's almost like a meme your personal
mean you you always you always say that
so would you like to understand why I
agree please yeah so like for you just
said right so like you said that in the
when you were 8 years old when your
personality was beginning to develop and
you were starting to become the person
that you are it just suited you to work
on your own like you just rather prefer
like you were more comfortable yeah like
it's not a stretch to then for like you
to 30 seconds later say it just suits me
to be on my own oh it's like yeah and
like you just told us well of course of
course I mean that that much is obvious
but we just jumped from me being like
eight to me being 35 and they missed out
everything in the middle and I don't
know they does it be even matter maybe
not I guess well as that doesn't pearl
of wisdom number two so just think about
that for a second fall does everything
in the middle matter
well if it doesn't they you know dig
into it right well just go just get
straight to the conclusion well yeah I
mean so I think this is an important
point to make right so we're gonna dig
into it absolutely to see if there's a
pattern that emerges but I think my
point is that like the people that we
are are formed in the past right like
that's kind of a no-brainer
right yeah this is a recurring theme for
sure from the other people you've seen
very good so what's the theme well the
theme is that how you're nurtured early
on someone's like the butterfly effect
it sort of echoes stronger and stronger
throughout the rest of your life
beautifully sad Pro acquisitive number
three so this is this is gonna be great
so like you know I was a little bit
concerned that I have to give you pearls
of wisdom but it seems like we've
swapped you I actually surprised myself
a little bit with that one but yeah yeah
what was surprising about that I thought
I'd be too nervous to come out with
anything profound in this session to be
honest that usually huh so I think
that's the first letter on the thing
that you put on your wall right so
that's you actually understanding you're
doing it already my friend but but would
you hold on so these pros are just just
like minor revelations of almost things
of the like kind of obviously I kind of
already know and putting them on my wall
isn't gonna even be like one step
towards fixing my problem these these
are not really okay Lisa don't I mean
you're kind of like smirking like gosh
you know they are so I'm not convinced
of that okay so I want to ask twitch
chat' question twitch chat and I can
mute you if you want to because I'm
going to ask him about you do you want
to hear it or do you want to I'm just
curious if they're able to receive so
twitch chat is he's squirrelly
what is this Corley is he like dodgy
like resisting dodging you guys see that
is that clear to you
well what am i dodging he's slippery
you're slippery Oh does that make sense
in what way so so what I mean by that is
like so here's the thing you come so
just notice your behavior okay you're
doing good by the way do you feel
nervous yeah probably yeah sorry that's
why I wanted was thinking about meeting
you but I just I was a little bit
curious about whether other people were
able to see what I was picking up from
you so I get the sense that you're
concerned that you can't be helped well
that was that was an initial concern but
you already you already told me that you
think I can absolutely right so does
that go away once I tell you I think you
can yeah I think it does oh I have a lot
of know what I mean you know doctor take
the wheel I actually quite happy to let
the rings go and you just you can drive
this thing I don't okay so yeah that's
what we're gonna do so I think the first
thing is that that probably over time
you've started to think and I'm
detecting from you that there's a part
of you that feels like it's it's gonna
be hard to help you or maybe that can't
be helped well I mean that's based on so
I I briefly saw a guy a CBT guy uh-huh
charged me it was charging what I
consider quite a lot of money for his
services and and this was like six years
ago or so and he sort of laughed at me
at one point when he yeah yeah that's my
reaction to when he got the idea that
maybe I would only date a virgin and I'm
oh I don't know where he got that idea
from maybe it was even true back then I
saw another case now but because I was a
virgin like oh I want someone who's like
on the same level kind of thing and he
sort of laughed like from like like
you're gonna find someone like that in
London you know I think yeah I don't
think so buddy kind of thing
and so after the session for whatever
reason you I didn't pay up front I don't
remember what the arrangement was I
think maybe you like pay at the start
the next session for both or I don't
know what the arranged mode but for some
reason I hadn't actually paid for the
session yet and he sent me packing with
some homework and this is the other
things like it's kind of like he'd
already prepared the homework so before
he'd even met me so it's like it seems
like a very standardized course and I
said to him look I got a concern like
before I come and see you again I'm just
like I'm not concerned I have a concern
that maybe you you can't like do you
believe you can help me because I mean I
got kind of got some like Hinn's like
FFT when he's like laughing I mean kind
of thing like I have a doubt so I said
to him can you can you if I'm gonna come
back for more sessions can you at least
tell me that from your point of view
this is it like you really believe
earnest in earnest that you can help me
and his response was well actually
actually actually may don't don't bother
pay me I don't know I'm not gonna see
you again
um you can keep the money so yeah I have
a doubt that I can be helped because
I've I've already failed to get help a
few times fail to get help
no no no no my friend that's not what
you failed to do it sounds like an
expert thought that you were hopeless
that's not failing to get help that's
help telling you that you can't be
helped does that make sense that's an
expert telling you that I'm giving up on
you yeah I don't know if I mean I don't
if he's a charlatan or what but I mean
he's is that how did you feel when he
said that
I don't remember his like five or six
years ago I kind of and I was very
depressed at that time I was depressed
clinically depressed and I was taking I
think so I'd tell a pram or something
okay if you know if not exactly then it
then shortly before after I don't
remember the timeframe exactly so how I
felt it probably actually made almost no
difference to my mood because my moods
already like rock bottom anyway okay at
that time so good now Paul I'm really
sorry that that happened to you that
actually sounds incredibly shitty again
it's water off a duck's back at the time
- honestly what does that mean like I
was like I would you told you didn't
really have an effect of that I recall
at the time yeah but just because it
didn't have an effect then and also it
was like the fourth so like before that
okay so definitely I was depressed I
remember that at the time I lived a
better now so before that had already
seen like three or four therapists but
bad ones because I since I was
clinically diagnosed you're entitled in
the UK to free therapy so what happens
then is you go to a center and they'll
give you the trainees you know you know
the ones that are will actually do it
for free and they're terrible they don't
they don't listen they don't take notes
they don't like one of them I most I'm
only saw for one session and I was like
nah this isn't going to work out one of
the mice office the full six though
which is what you're entitled to at the
end of the fifth session I said to her
but there's one burning thing I keep on
it I've wanted to say it's in session
one which never got around to it but can
you please remind me for session six and
I kind of I was kind of saying it
because I kind of had the feeling
because there was no like continuity
between any of the sessions so I was
kind of saying it kind of is a bit of a
[ __ ] test so for the sixth session I
turn up and it's the session concludes
and she hasn't even mentioned that the
burning thing I wanted her to remind me
to bring up and I mean all I can say
about that really it's always just under
underlines like how bad this this
therapy was it was a complete waste of
time but I guess I hope I'm such a
cheapskate I would have bought some I
guess I can't afford 500 an hour but you
know I could have spent something and
maybe got better I wasn't like my heart
was like fully in it though I didn't I
didn't fully believe that it was would
do me any good either so that's another
problem I'm a look I'm hearing you say a
lot of different things Paul on the one
hand I'm hearing you say that they did a
shitty job and on the other hand ear I
guess it was mutual we both wielded a
[ __ ] off yeah so then you're also saying
that right I'm also hearing that so this
this thread so Paul this is gonna be a
little bit tricky I'm trained in this
most human beings are not to remember
the sequence of a conversation so I'm
gonna try to point out some things to
you so this started when I asked you are
you afraid that you can't be helped
which in turn started because we had
this weird conversation about are you an
expert in this so like let's just stop
and think about that right so you start
the session by asking me are you an
expert in this
that's that starts that's not a neutral
beginning that's a like a skeptical not
skeptical is not the right word that's
actually a beginning that comes from
fear because there's a part of you that
believes that I can't help you
I believe in the possibility that you
might not be able to so yeah so so Paul
I think this is the other actually
really cool thing is that sometimes when
I reflect things back at you you
actually look at them objectively but I
think some of the statements that you
make are not coming from objective
places so you're actually like you would
be very good at CBT because like I said
as a patient or as a patient I would
love to have you as a CPT measure
because you actually CBT is about a
therapist being a mirror for you in some
people when I repeat things back they
can't like they don't CBT is like
helping you understand your thoughts and
that and you actually your thoughts do
change so the tricky thing about CBT is
like your thoughts are malleable so when
when I say you know I detect and I'm
curious of twitchchat detects this to
essentially despair despair about your
situation and despair that whether you
can be helped or not right and and then
the interesting thing though is that
when someone is in that despair like
leaks out and it starts with do you
think you can actually help
that's the first opening that's the
opening salvo to our session and and so
then but then I say yes I I can and this
is the magical thing is you say okay
that means something to me
for a lot of people if I tell them yes I
can their despair is so rigid that they
can't even like see past that but it
sounds like you can so that's fantastic
well I mean I yeah it's just I have a
lot of love for you in the work that you
do and I genuinely believe that if
you're like one of the smartest guys
I've ever known and if you say that you
can help me that's good enough for me
honestly okay good so I can't help you I
believe that I've been wrong in the past
but you know so maybe I'm the red buff I
don't know yeah I think we're gonna have
we don't have to vote on who's the raid
boss right so it's like you can't help
me if you can't help me I am
that's we'll figure that out I guess
okay so see there it is again
like you see that like there's there's
this there's a certain calcification
durst and that was a joke but like in
your mind like I think there's a part of
you that wonders whether you're the rain
boss like I'm the you're the one guy
that dr. K can't help do that does that
make sense that's exactly that's nothing
so that comes from a sense that you
cannot be helped
does that make sense it possible yeah
and that can everyone be helped with
everything I don't know okay so don't
get don't get philosophical on me so so
we're talking about you like I don't
[ __ ] know if everyone can be helped
with everything I know nothing about
that that's not what I do I don't help
everyone with everything I try to do one
person with one thing but you have a
question no okay sir so then I asked you
about you know do you feel like you can
be helped and then you tell me these
stories and what is the point of those
stories like what are you have it enjoy
the stories maybe not so much to therapy
because I feel like if you just go in
with with trainees who don't like really
know what they're doing any kind of
recipe for disaster but
I guess I didn't know that before I
tried it but anyway a specially the CBT
guy and he's chart he I was like eighty
critter time for him which seemed like a
quite a lot of money to me at the time I
kind of expected more out of that than I
got how did you feel when he said don't
worry about it mate I'm not gonna see
you again how did you feel
I told you that I was ready I don't
either I don't remember or it was just
neutral okay good to know and I also
have a terrible emotional memory anyway
I like remembering emotions isn't really
something I'm good I believe that you
did not notice or maybe even didn't have
I I accept what you're saying that you
did not notice or even a notice implies
that it could have been happening eat I
don't think you changed much or you
didn't notice much of a change based on
what he said but now expected it to even
be asking me in the first place
asking what if I'm asking him do it does
he really believe he can help me I'm
half expecting that he can't right so if
you're yeses say that you can't is just
firming what I have suspected anyway
yes very good I'm not because I'm going
to be devastated by that revelation yep
and that's still going on here you see
that like that dynamic is here so you
have more faith in me which is fantastic
but just because you have faith in me
does not mean that your attitude has
changed like so the faith in me is used
to overcome your attitude and the reason
you can overcome your attitude is
because you have a lot of faith in me
but that attitude that you cannot be
helped runs pretty deep and is pretty
strong yeah well I mean I've been on
this earth for quite a few years and
probably one of the oldest in cells
around and I've tried a lot of things
and none of them have worked so if we
put away all the stuff that's related to
maybe your area like therapy and all
that stuff I mean there's plenty of
other stuff that's more normal that I've
tried like just hanging around in bars
and clubs there's not a place I like to
be but I tried it for a while at one
point I I guess when I was depressed
especially I was like well gee you're
depressed and what are you depressed
about what you're depressed because you
can't go well why aren't you even doing
the things that you know traditionally
no
people do like go to the ghost of social
places and just hang out there I see
what happens you haven't even tried it
and you're like you're depressed but it
doesn't make sense try it well if you
got to lose at that point [ __ ]
nothing because you're depressed so I
did I didn't work out I can't tell you
the long story short didn't work out
tell me about what what happened I
thought so I heard a little while I used
to I just went to a bar and I'm teetotal
but I drank anyway because it's what
everyone else does and I didn't meet any
girls but I met some guys eventually and
they befriend I would say they
befriended me around the other way
around I'm not really like confident
enough to like opens but they just
decided to chat to me and we actually
became friends kind of
the they didn't seem to have a lot in
common with me but we did anyway and I
just hang out hung out with them and did
the things they like to do which
included like more of that but also
going clubbing which is like much harder
than just hanging out in a bar like I I
hate everything about clubs just like
everything about them
but yeah but as we did all that for a
little bit until I got until I got tight
well actually eventually they moved so
eventually they one of them went off to
Australia and the other one somewhere
else at around the same time and we when
we split then but for a little while I
tried I tried that and didn't it didn't
appeal to me and it didn't work out for
me but I was just I thought I'd give it
a go yeah very good right so once again
you're a smart guy you logically looked
at your situation and you decided that
you were going to try something and so
it sounds like you that have you tried
that a couple of different times or that
was sort of the main time uh yeah so I
just went I just went on that little
binge it was like a few months of just
going clubbing with them and drinking
with them
okay um did you meet any did you meet
any girls during that time no so no I
didn't although one of the guys was
pretty good-looking and he got off with
a few but for whatever reason his other
friend didn't and he was almost at least
to me so you know my sis is attractive
and the him and me didn't okay how do
you understand that
like if his body was also it sounds like
he's outgoing and enjoys clubbing and is
attractive like why didn't he meet any
girls over those few months let's talk
about him for a second so what the other
guy who didn't do any better than I did
yeah why didn't he yeah I guess I never
figure that out I mean why didn't you do
well let's start there well I mean I'm
overweight okay
I'm balding I don't know if you'd know
that I don't know how clearly it comes
through on the web
yeah but sure I think you've got just
standard male pattern baldness that's
right yeah yeah so like you have do you
have reasons for your failure right I
imagine that he must have too but it
wasn't really apparent to me maybe it's
just that he was overshadowed by his
friend and there wasn't enough to go
around okay
so there's another option right which is
that the duration of your experiment was
not long enough to yield a result like
if I go fishing and there's a very
veteran Fisher know I should know I know
what no no no so there was so so so to
look at them there wasn't much to choose
between them but actually the other guy
definitely was a much much looser
even if they drank an equal volumes and
even if they were equally like how to
call in that system he most definitely
more outgoing yeah
you step outside of your thought process
and I want you to pay attention to an
exchange that just happened you gave me
a scenario right you gave me the
scenario you gave me data and then I
drew a conclusion from that data and
then what did you do with the conclusion
that I drew what exactly I saw you're
kind of could so you said you said that
you know I was it was kind of weird
because he was about as good-looking and
then we talked about okay why couldn't
he find a girlfriend and you said I
don't know and then I said okay why
couldn't you find a girlfriend and you
said because I'm overweight and then I
suggested to you that perhaps there was
like something about the duration of how
long you looked which if he couldn't
find a girlfriend maybe maybe there's
like maybe it just takes longer than a
couple of months of clubbing to find a
girlfriend and then you came back and
said what well I said but I know what I
said but it's just because I read
spontaneously remembered something that
I forgot I thought I'm not disputing
that you spontaneously remember that's
not I'm not disputing that what did you
say
well I said that so that the guy who was
doing well actually did have a
differentiating factor which was that he
was more outgoing absolutely so now so
now we're gonna jump into something so
this is a cognitive bias okay so like
like this is how a cognitive bias
operates you are doing something that's
very subtle so most of the time what we
want our mind to do is we have a
particular opinion and the world gives
us data and that data should change our
opinion that's the reason that we
collect information from the world right
like if I walk outside like does that
make sense like you want your
experiences like the process of learning
is you like have a particular belief and
then the world tells you something and
your your opinion about the world should
change based on the experiments that you
perform in the world right sure yeah
yeah something very common happens with
people we're instead of using the data
to change their interpretation they use
their interpretation to change the data
well you you thing and they're really
roundabout way that I'm just making it
up it's not that you're making it up
it's true but it's that your mind is
doing this little slippery thing where
when I present something to you that
does not fit with your conclusion your
mind scans your memory further and comes
up with greater evidence to support your
existing belief I mean I just remembered
the other thing I don't know absolutely
I'm not saying you didn't remember it
you're the funny thing is you're right
so now I'm gonna give you an example
have you seen any of the videos about a
hum car and woody do you know what those
mean
so those particular terms are not once a
group okay group so so I'm gonna I'm
gonna give you an example real quick
okay because I know it seems freakin
absurd but it's not irrational what
you're doing is not irrational it's not
stupid it's literally how our mind works
okay so some so I'm gonna give you a
scenario so let's say that this is a
standard one I use so hopefully people
will remember this one so let's say that
I go into work one day and my boss yells
at me for being late let's say I work in
real estate okay I go in for work one
day my boss who's the manager so I'm one
of the people who goes around and like
sells real estate my colleagues go
around in sell real estate manager
manages the office so he says hey I'll
look you're late again you're always
late like you got a you know you got to
be like on time and stuff like that and
so like how do you think I feel when he
says that like he says in front of the
whole office well if he's gonna do it
that way you must feel a little bit
mortified absolutely right something
something happens where like when I feel
mortified and humiliated sometimes my
ego can activate and I can start
thinking things like who is he to tell
me right does that make sense like like
I sell real estate like what difference
does it make if I show up half an hour
later at work or whatever like the
important thing is that I meet my
clients on time and I sell houses like
I'm selling houses so like what does it
matter like what time I show up he's
just some office manager he's not
actually out there selling he's just
he's like making my life hard but like
it doesn't matter like whether I show up
at 9:35 an appointment at 11 o'clock
like who cares what time I get to the
office I get my work done I show up half
an hour later and I leave half an hour
later does that thought process make
sense to you that someone could think
that oh yeah some people for sure with
absolutely right that's my that I've met
and these ones yeah and and so so our
mind does something we're like like is
that thought process illogical
No
yes good insubordinate sure absolutely
so then but but our mind works in a very
very funny way it also is like super
selective about how it retrieves
memories so in that moment when I'm
feeling that way and I'm thinking these
thoughts about my boss I'm gonna gloss
over all kinds of things like for
example that the reason that the boss is
the manager is because he's the best
salesperson in the office that's how he
got promoted but in that moment like my
mind is gonna gloss away from that does
that make sense
sure right and and so you hear all kinds
of this is what we call a justification
right so I was in a marriage and I had
an affair because my partner worked too
much so like our mind does all kinds of
weird gymnastics to justify what we
believe about ourselves right so like
that's that's the way that our mind
absolves our self and responsibility
because we don't want to think that
we're a bad person so it does more
gymnastics and if you go to that person
who says that they had an affair because
their partner traveled too much for work
and you try to talk to them and you try
to like show them a different way their
mind does the same thing your mind does
which is that it comes up with more and
more data to support their existing
belief does that sound like can you
imagine that happening does that sound
reasonable to you like if I talk to an
alcoholic and I say you're an alcoholic
okay and they say you're trying to sure
okay but are you trying to convince me
that I'm wrong of something different
because if not then why are you pointing
it out I'm pointing it out to you
because I want you to understand what
your thought process is doing that your
thought process has and will point it
out to you later - okay that you have
this this option where like you know
we'll talk about something and then
you'll give me a set of data and I will
interpret that data and we'll send it
back to you based on the data that you
provide and then you will invalidate my
conclusion with additional data that's
gonna be the process by which your mind
works and we're gonna see it half a
dozen times over the next hour so just
look for it
Hey okay that's all I want to point out
okay yeah you might be right I mean I
have a lot of like stupid mind loops I
remember that from reckful show I really
identify with that thought yeah mostly
most of them come from the depression
days we sure that they stick with me
sure so I think this is a little bit
different I I'm I'm sensing that what
you're talking about is a content of
your mind is like this like that the
what I'm talking about is the process of
your mind not the content of your mind
okay sure okay so let's just keep an eye
on that because I think that there have
been many times where you've made
statements to me and I generally do this
where I repeat back to people what they
said in slightly different language and
then you kind of block so earlier if
that's what I mean by slippery but
that's okay it's not it's not your fault
I just want you to notice what your mind
is doing because why I need to notice
them huh why do I need to notice is it
like a fold or um it's not that it's a
fault
it's simply that you play video games
I've been done - okay so what do you
play these days not so much okay what
was the last thing oh lately lately
rimworld actually okay I mean I needed
it to take my mind off things RIT this
week sure cool just came yeah so so like
like if you're thinking about rim world
like what's the point behind
understanding the mechanics of rim world
what's the point yeah why would you why
do you need to understand how the game
functions like what the rules of the
game are to not die trust you do well it
it you need to understand the mechanics
right yep so why do you need to
understand the mechanics of your mind
listen isn't a life and death situation
though no it's not but it's to do well
at life right that's what the whole
stream is about is that by understanding
how your mind works okay you'll get
better at the game of life okay but yeah
what do I need to do what do I need to
do differently about the thing you were
talking about though the first thing is
to notice it because you can't you can't
change anything about your mind unless
you're aware that it's acting right so
I'm
and you and I'm learning that it in the
face of a an opposite conclusion I just
throw more supporting evidence of my
belief yes thing you're right in saying
yes that's exactly what I'm saying so I
want you to look for it okay and it's
not the tricky thing here is it's not
that you're wrong
so that is it not like I mean obviously
you know why I do it though rice because
maybe if you had that a little bit more
he might be swayed you might reconsider
I don't know absolutely because you're
convinced you're right and you're gonna
keep on giving me evidence until you
show me that I'm wrong that's how your
mind is working but what I'm saying is
that like what you're doing is you're no
longer using data from the external
world to change your view that's a
problem right so this is where like case
in point I think the reason that you
didn't find a girlfriend over three
months okay it is because the same
reason that your friend didn't find a
girlfriend over three months which is
that it's generally speaking hard to
find it a girlfriend over a three-month
period that's the reason this no right
because a three-month period is not a
sufficient time span to find a
girlfriend okay
well what kind of is the rough reference
gestation period of thought the sequence
18 months Jesus Christ okay I'm going to
speed dating next simple as the point of
that so I think the other thing that
makes it hard for you to find a
girlfriend is that like generally
speaking like you're not gonna be happy
and actively looking if you're blatantly
uncomfortable and don't enjoy what
you're doing
right like if if I'm a garbage man and I
don't like my job my chances of like
having a successful interaction with a
woman while I'm taking out someone's
trash is gonna be really low so if
you're if you're in a bar in a club and
you hate being there and you feel
uncomfortable because you it's it's it
suits you to play the game single-player
and you don't like being in this large
crowded place with thousands of people
and it like makes you socially anxious
your chances of meeting a girl not only
they like Lowe from a three-months
standpoint you're not going to show them
the attractive version of you you know
if there even is one but yeah there we
go again can't be helped you see that
that's the core belief and now when I
say there it is again you can't be
helped give me the evidence do you feel
like telling me but I really can't be
helped
somehow you feel okay good good so let's
see it no because you keep you keep
texting me on this point you already
told me I can no I'm not trying to test
you on that point I believe you that you
you believe that you can what I'm
pointing out to you is the reflexive
nature of your mind I'm not trying to
catch you I'm trying to point out to you
that you had the loss of flexion
reaction to that ball huh I didn't have
a reflexive reaction to that though no
no but you just said you just said I
don't know if I if I can if I can be all
right yeah right yeah so so that that
were that phrase that came out of your
mouth runs contrary to the belief that
you can be helped agreed well yeah I
mean
we haven't yeah well at this point in
time yeah yeah so I just want you to
notice your mind that's all I'm telling
you to do okay we're gonna this is this
like super like heady so so like let me
try to make things a little bit more
concrete for you okay so thoughts
questions actually let's just pause for
a second I didn't have anything okay I'm
gonna take a drink of water okay I
suppose the only thought I have is like
when do when do we get to the when do we
get to the fixing me part because it
seems I don't know how is this is this
is this is this this is part of it like
I feel like we're correcting god I hope
so
I just feel like it's like how does this
feel to you feels like a lot of
digression into um random things yeah
what what about what we're talking about
is random what are we talking about
we're talking about Hawaii mines work
which is group which would be fine but
it doesn't seem like it's the way in
which my mind works as it pertains to my
interaction with other people or even
like the opposite sex like it doesn't
that's not coming into it it's slow like
just about just about anything like you
are spot-on let my backstory or whatever
so so can I tell you can I I'm gonna
repeat back to you now okay so let's see
what happens so I'm guessing I'm getting
from you that we're not necessarily here
to talk about your mind in isolation and
about something random what we're here
to talk about is how your mind
interfaces with meeting other people in
relationships and how the function of
your mind interferes with you like
getting a girlfriend
sure
we're not talking about like your mind
and isolation and random things that
we're talking about these patterns and
crap like that all the patterns we're
talking about have nothing to do with
girlfriends right is that what it feels
like a digression to you yeah I guess so
yeah okay
so another way so I'm now I'm gonna try
to extend things a little bit another
way to put it is right now like we're
talking about just you we're not talking
about anything in the outside world
right okay yeah sure and and your sense
is that the solution to finding a
girlfriend is to like talk about how you
interface with the outside world yeah it
seems like it would be yeah absolutely
does seem like it would be my belief is
that it actually isn't okay so I think
your biggest problem actually comes from
here because if you think about it
statistically you're like you like you
may be overweight but like lots of dudes
are overweight lots of dudes are
partially balding in their 30s you're
not a bad-looking guy right I mean you
may think so but you know I mean I'm
pretty sure I can generally like you're
not like you're just a normal-looking
guy and and I think that the biggest
thing that's holding you back is
actually the stuff in here because in my
experience with gamers entrepreneurs
executives housewives this is what I
think it's part of me part of me thought
so too which is why I wanted to come on
very good right yeah it's not like I
thought well I'm just coming on because
I'm I like the show it's because I yeah
yeah very good
yeah yeah right so so I think that it's
clear to me that you're a smart guy and
that you've tried lots of external
things I'm not an expert in dating I'm
not an expert in how to meet women
what I'm an expert in is how your mind
works and I'm definitely detecting
things that I think would interfere with
your ability to find a girlfriend okay
and at the top at the top of the list is
the idea that you're hopeless sure it's
evidence-based but yeah absolutely right
there it is again
absolutely evidence-based it's probably
one day's mile adaptations as you call
them around yeah yeah so I don't doubt
that it's evidence-based but you see
what you did there
you're giving me evidence you're gonna
give me evidence to make sure that I'm
convinced that you are hopeless you're
like but it's evidence-based I'm
hopeless it's evidence-based that's what
you meant right I'm just I'm just
letting you know where it comes from
it's not like I just made it up I
completely agree because I think it is
evidence-based I think the reason that
you believe you're hopeless is not
because you're weak but because you were
taught so and you were signaled that by
people like that CBT therapist for their
best to abruptly terminate with a
patient and tell you yeah I'm not gonna
see you anymore is very damaging again
not really the damage had already been
done that that became way too late to
really have a significant impact so in
in the then I completely agree with you
I don't think it affected you that but I
think it affects you today because I
think it is another point of evidence so
that really think about it I don't have
to think about it
you don't have to think about you know
I'm sure you rarely think about when you
were eight years old and you didn't want
to do a group project
that's the whole point behind the
subconscious is that the actions that
occur to us and the things that happen
to us affect our behaviors in our
beliefs about ourselves without any
conscious knowledge that's like how the
mind works
hmm yeah but I guess what I'm saying is
this logged away with a bunch of [ __ ]
about the things that we probably will
never have time to discuss and maybe
don't need to but that's like a lot of
evidence that stacks up against that
would make me come to that conclusion
yeah I think so dick okay so I don't
know what you're trying to do but I
think you're so that so you are giving
me more and more ammo for my hypothesis
which is that your problem with meeting
women doesn't come from anything that
you do externally but comes from the
idea that you're hopeless and when I
tell you that you say by the way dr. K
that's a very very logical conclusion
and I have piles and piles of evidence
to believe to make me believe I'm
hopeless and I say absolutely it's
because you have all of those piles of
evidence that the hopelessness is so
strong that inner interjects into every
interaction you have with female human
beings yeah I guess it kind of its kind
of like pretty much full oh my god I
don't think even any more evidence at
this point would even make any
difference but but that's not what way
that's not gonna be a solution is it
like how do we get rid of how to be like
reprogram that absolutely so the first
thing to understand how you feeling by
the way
nothing's changed I feel like pretty
much the same okay you feel that kind of
neutral
sure yes you could say I guess you could
say that yeah okay so the your question
about reprogramming right I guess I feel
a little bit hopeful though we're
finally starting to touch on maybe like
yeah
this could this could go somewhere good
yes so that's weird because I thought we
just concluded that you have
overwhelming evidence that you're
hopeless in that well you know what
we've identified that you've identified
that as the thing that needs to change
which is see the see I mean I look I
have friends and I have colleagues and I
have people tell me things like oh you
need to you need to dress smarter or you
need to you need to get like regular
hobbies that are relatable to other
people or not you know blah blah blah no
one's ever told me you need to
like what you just said right okay
that's something new to think about this
just infuriates me to no end Paul are
you a smart guy it's not a trick
question how would I know the answer is
[ __ ] yes the answer is yes right like
okay but why are you asking me about
right now well I'm getting I'm going
somewhere I'm going somewhere it goes
let's start let's just start with laying
out or some shits are you a smart guy
I'm not trying to trap you it's not a
trick question I know I look like I'm
about to trap you I'm not gonna trap you
okay so you're a smart guy
you're a capable guy I have faith in you
as a human being okay so if you is a
smart guy if you're given a thousand
solutions like dress differently and do
this and do this if you were given a
thousand solutions to a problem of not
meeting a girl and none of those
solutions work what do we know about the
like what does that tell us
well the credible thing is like some of
them I don't want to try because they're
like they require changing fundamentally
Who I am sometimes I get suggestions
like that so then I'm thinking do I
haven't even tried them so it's got that
I might have to do this I might be gonna
have to I don't think you you are don't
change who you are
no no exactly this will leaves it leaves
room for doubt well it's something
you've not tried then people are telling
you should do it yeah so like at the
point that I'm trying to make is like if
you try a thousand solutions and you
haven't tried a thousand sure there's
stuff you haven't try and fine but
you've tried a lot of stuff right like
you've been struggling to like find a
girlfriend for years and like over a
decade it sounds like yeah well on and
off a certain point I put it at some
point I put the whole thing to bed and I
just you concluded that maybe it's just
not for me
yep but I keep but I keep seeing there's
there what what is what is that it's not
for me that's the can't be helped you
see that you're hopeless like that yeah
well the it's a you can't keep chasing
something that there's other things to
do with your time right it's kind of
like that fury 18 to like go after
something that you're clearly not good
at at some point you just [ __ ] give
up yeah how does that
that's is that it conflicting because in
some ways it's therapeutic so you no
longer to think you know I could long
have to worry about it if it's not only
a goal to strive for something that
seems hopeless
then that's therapeutic because well it
release it's comfortable because you
just couldn't use put it to bed you
don't but you keep relapsing and coming
back to this idea like so like I lost
like ten kilos or fifteen kilos a couple
years ago and I saw and then I got like
some fresh new clothes I thought well
you [ __ ] put the two and put those
two things together maybe I should give
it another shot and it didn't work out
and then like okay well [ __ ] I guess I'm
just lose more weight I know I don't
know what I don't know what I need to
try and do but you keep relapsing and
like giving in them giving it another go
because you get all these kind of like
data points from other people like that
I really [ __ ] happy in their
relationships and like you never had one
so it's like at least one I have one one
time just to see what it's like for me I
mean they sing to you having a good time
with it but so now we get to the core
okay because you have so being hopeless
is protective do you get that giving up
gives you comfort you see that and then
every once in a while your loneliness
Rises and you say I want that I'm gonna
try again you let yourself hope and wait
you let yourself hope you get smacked in
the face yeah yeah and and then being
hopeless and giving up becomes even more
comforting because you have tried and
you have tried and you have tried and
life has smacked you across the face
over and over and over again so why the
[ __ ] why the [ __ ] even bother it's
impossible let me just accept that this
is never for me let me be hopeless let
me conclude that I can't be helped
because if I tell myself I cannot be
helped I don't have to be hurt anymore
if I accept it is a isn't is it's
impossible and it's if I can do that I
can live with that because I can live
with loneliness what I can't live with
is hope and like trying again
mmm no it's just that so like let's
let's suppose it
let's just entertain for a moment the
idea that maybe actually I'm not
suitable there is no one in the world
that was made for me just let's
entertain that thought for just a second
if that was the case if you could
possibly know that from the future then
you would go back and tell yourself well
don't even waste your time with it like
focus on the things you're actually good
at and develop those even further excel
at those right why the [ __ ] it's totally
futile to spend any of that effort you
put into it if you could of course we
did week on though like he maybe maybe I
came super [ __ ] close maybe I just
needed to go a bit further than I would
who knows but like at this point you
don't know but like when you when you
start to collect so much evidence that
there seems to suggest that you just
[ __ ] not bother than like yeah so I'm
just pack it in III think I think you're
I think you're right Paul I think that
your disease or your reason to pack it
in is a very good one
this comes back to you your problem is
not that you're dumb your problem is
that you're smart your problem is that
the logical conclusions you come to have
the force of intelligence behind them
not ignorance this is what makes
cognitive bias so lethal for you because
the smarter you are the stronger the
cognitive biases which you have to
understand about cognitive biases it's
like something hijacking your IQ so the
smarter you are the harder it is to
overcome your cognitive bias because
your capacity to make logical arguments
and find evidence is very very high
which in turn makes it harder for you to
convince yourself that hopelessness is
not the right path because you've
logically you do this philosophical
thought experiment well let's assume for
a moment that like some people are meant
to be alone which is like a reasonable
assertion like not every billion not
every one of the seven billion people on
the planet like some of them have to be
alone right just statistically well it
works it works out mathematically like
if on average there's 50% male and
female
I just [ __ ] know so it was good yeah
what are you doing right now what is it
doing right now pay attention giving you
the [ __ ] data is mind Lee
[ __ ] good one I like this story but
you don't need to hear it actually good
I'm glad that you recognize that you
like it this is why your mind keeps on
going there you love that mind loop so
much because it protects you from so
many things it that mind loop and this
is why you have such a strong cognitive
bias that you can't be helped because if
you can't be helped then you can just
let abandon it all you can you can let
yourself go from the roller coaster of
hope and rejection and hurt and failure
okay but you've you've proved you've
proved that several times but when can
we start on the like how do we reprogram
it though this is how we reprogram it
how by noticing so awareness precedes
control ever had dental work done I had
a feeling yeah did you get numb they
never you up yeah yeah can you control
your mouth when you're numb well you
certainly don't want to control it
during the operation but uh yeah you can
control that what you mean you can't
feel it yeah so what happens to the
control of your mouth when you can't
feel it oh you you have to be careful
you can end up biting yourself you know
you notice you can injure yourself yeah
so as your awareness return so why would
you bite yourself it's because your
control is imperfect
it's impaired yeah by the degree of
numbness right and so if you had one
feeling it sounds like they numbed up
just one part of your mouth yeah and so
you had control over you had good
control over the last bad control over
here and you can hurt yourself as you
gain control as you gain awareness of
this part of your mouth what happens to
your control over that part of your
mouth
I mean we regain control I mean
absolutely how do you gain control by
being able to feel your mouth how does
that work Paul I'm not unknown
neuroscientist but I guess because
you're receiving signals from the nerves
in your Union your mouth and yeah so you
have no you've no [ __ ] idea all you
know is that it's true right more or
less it's like like you have to be a
neuroscientist like it's not like people
who are neuroscientists are the only
ones that can control their mouth
everyone can control their mouth sure of
course in awareness precedes control if
you ever if you're in a relationship
with someone who's super manipulative
and you don't realize what they're doing
to you you're gonna get manipulated once
you start to become aware that
manipulation is happening from your boss
or a co-worker or a partner then you
gain control over it you're like oh yeah
yes that you have to you have to learn
that in London because people will take
people will uh people will [ __ ] him and
they let you scammy whatever in they're
not travelling as well yeah if you
traveled and so as you become aware of
what they're doing how do you gain
control over your life like how does
that work like is that is awareness
enough pretty much yeah
well there you go you just have to see a
cut you have to do you have to see it
coming uh experience this a little bit
as well you have to not to deal with it
too good yep so I'm gonna take the first
answer that you gave me which is pretty
much you have to know how to do with it
absolutely but awareness is where people
fall short and this goes back to my
earlier point the reason that I don't
think you've been able to find a
girlfriend is because you've been
solving the wrong problem
you've been solving a problem that's
external wear different clothes
lose weight do this do that go to the
club all of your solutions have been in
an external space I'm sure and I think
your problem the reason you can't find a
girlfriend has nothing to do with any of
that [ __ ] because you've tried all that
[ __ ] and if that was your problem then
logically you should have found a
girlfriend yeah ergo you're treating the
wrong disease yeah okay right so in
medicine we make a diagnosis and we
provide people with a treatment
if the treatment doesn't work sometimes
it's because our diagnosis is wrong and
you've been treating external factors
time and time and time again whereas I
think what's going on is you have this I
was about to say soul-crushing but I
think what it really is so here's
another pearl for you it's a very
protective hopelessness well it's not
it's not a pearl because it doesn't it
doesn't state it doesn't state what you
need to do it just it is states of how
things are yeah which is still useful
because I would never have phrased that
I guess it is a pearl in a way it's not
it's not a lot of resolution but now we
come back to the first [ __ ] thing
that I told you which is that you're
looking for the thing that you're gonna
put on your wall that's gonna transform
your life not how it works buddy I mean
I'm not gonna put on my wool that I have
a protective shroud of hopelessness but
there's nothing you can put on your wall
this process of growth is not binary
that's my point nothing is going to feel
transformative to you but is it huge
absolutely
it's little things little things about
the way that you view yourself little
things about understanding that when you
go meet someone we are empathic human
beings and that's someone that the girls
that you meet are gonna sense within you
some degree of hopelessness that even if
you try to engage with them you are not
gonna be carefree right are you saying
that are you saying that I worry about
that or that that's actually what's
happening that people can actually sense
of it I think people can sense it
because here's what I think people sense
I don't think people sense you being
carefree and when someone is looking for
a mate the number of people who are
attracted to people who are not carefree
like that's what's attractive like
that's when you're able to be your best
self when you were unburdened it makes a
lot of sense because like how can you
because I went through a spree of speed
dating as well like I'm like a dozen
events and you meet so many people they
must have met hundreds of people and
they like they will consistently reject
you it seems like well and you only meet
them like four minutes right so they
have to they have to pick up on
something pretty [ __ ] fast so I mean
that does that does fit yeah because I I
just don't know like I wear it on my
sleeve like how how is it that [ __ ]
obvious I don't know I I don't know I
don't know either I just know that as
human beings were empathic and that I
think that like you you know when
someone is carefree and when someone is
burdened right
I don't do you know it in the first four
minutes of meeting them I don't know I
don't know worth investigating
let's ask twitch at twitch at is this
guy burdened or is he carefree and did
you know in the first four minutes also
for you dr. K did I did I seem burned in
the first four minutes like absolutely
okay right it's taken me an hour to
convince you that you believe that you
cannot be helped but I've been trying
for an hour I've been trying to point
this whole thing out to you for one hour
we've been talking about the same
[ __ ] thing for the last hour twitch
at CPAC and why as though yes and no go
back and watch the vine I will yeah for
the benefit that I don't have twitch
chat on because it'd be too distracting
but I yeah I know what they're saying
don't ban anyone I want to know the real
I want to know what a Jewett fish that's
really saying yeah right so I think
twitch at can tell that you're burdened
okay and that's not your fault it's not
your dumb it's just what is right now
and I think this burden of hopelessness
has built up within you and then I think
like generally speaking if I'm going to
like try to gauge the success of any
endeavor a human beings belief in
whether they can succeed or whether
they're gonna fail tends to have a lot
to do with whether they succeed or fail
a lot of people who say they can succeed
still fail very few people who believe
they fail success that was the that was
the message of a poem my granddad gave
me
that's it that's something that I don't
know very well yeah I read it as funeral
Ashley let that exactly that message
yeah
you sooner or later those who succeed
are those who believe they can is the
sort of ending of that poem yep you
believe that and I believe it in my
working life I do I do pretty well like
professionally sure I should like have a
career in London is actually it's uh
it's not for everyone to say that yeah I
believe you're very capable but not
knowing everything I disagree I think
the big difference between your
professional careers that you believe
you can succeed and the big difference
in your dating life is that you believe
you can't yeah I wonder why that is
because it's it's not like it's not like
I didn't face a schilit of adversity in
my friend actually I had real trouble
holding down a job partly cuz I'm like
not very social as we
I it's less for problem now hmm just cuz
I've been through it so many [ __ ]
times like but it was really rough start
yep so what's the difference between a
rough start like so what's the
difference that's you're asking so
you're doing a very good job Paul so now
you're looking at your life you're
reflecting and I think you're actually
changing because you're asking yourself
why is it that in my professional life
despite adversity I was able to like
power through and succeed whereas in my
dating life I have been unable to and so
my question for you is when you were
facing adversity Paul what did you think
in your deepest darkest self what did
you think about your prospects of
success did you accept hopelessness
first yes but it's a really hard one to
answer because actually the first time I
lost my first job it wasn't just about
the job actually it was the two things
intertwined it was the climb at a girl
at work and she ultimately got me fired
and I and I despaired about that for a
cup for at least a year I didn't I just
I didn't work I was unemployed I was
collecting the Jobseeker's Allowance
which is what we have in the UK when
you're like eventually I obviously
through through necessity more than
anything I needed money I got back back
into the working world but I didn't get
into the okay remember you're making
this way too easy for everybody so I
think your absolute despair after after
that work experience I don't think you
can look at that as just a professional
experience because there was a woman
involved you know so I said that I said
it intertwined is that she's like both
of those exactly at the same time right
so that's a that reinforces our building
hypothesis that you've never really like
been hopeless about your work you may
have been hopeless about that situation
but I think that situation was
contaminated by a woman yeah yeah yeah I
guess part of it is like I don't know no
that's completely correct after you so
this was like 10 years ago see it's easy
to forget but actually the reason I
didn't want to go back into another job
straight away is because I was worried
that the same thing would happen again
with a woman like not so what you're
right look is the thing it's not
professional never was I've always been
[ __ ] so that now you ask yourself the
question why have I been able to face
adversity in my job and been successful
and faced adversity in my dating life
and been unsuccessful it's because the
[ __ ] adversity that you face in your
job didn't come from your job became
from women it's the same problem yes
well okay finds it whether it's not very
helpful revelation because it's just
okay so that we're still concluding that
my work has been fine and my dating has
not been fine which is we knew that the
whole time
no we did it right so this began when we
authentically reflected and scratched
our heads and said why why did I face
why did I get fired and I was
unemployment on unemployment for one
year why did I not give up hope then and
was I truly hopeless and is work
actually different from women because I
faced adversity in both now we have
confirmed our hypothesis it's not that
we didn't know like we had a suspicion
but we should still reflect and confirm
authentically so this still comes back
to then what this means is that like if
the big difference between your
professional life and your dating life
is your internal sense of confidence
about whether you can succeed that also
confirms that your road forward has
nothing to do with the shirt that you
wear or how much you weigh it has to do
with your belief about whether you can
actually be in a successful relationship
with a woman okay good okay it's more
reinforcement I guess what are we doing
about it though okay so so I've answered
that question a couple times but I'll
make things a little bit more calm I'm
gonna give you what you want which is
not what I think is gonna help you but
I'm gonna give you what you want so the
first thing is I've been saying to you
several times that understanding that
your hopelessness is what I think really
holds you back in terms of your
relationships with women
uh-huh and that so now what I want you
to do is train yourself to see the
hopelessness right so when you when you
you're going to a speed-dating thing
there's the sign good so when you think
about the speed-dating thing how do you
feel yeah I feel hopeless doctor okay
that's changing and the fact that you
can laugh at it so this is exactly what
I want you to do Paul when you go into
the speed-dating thing before you enter
the door to wherever this place is
notice that hopelessness catch it and
[ __ ] laugh in its face just like you
did and when you're sitting across from
a woman and you feel that hopelessness
catch it
look at it in laughing's [ __ ] face
and when you laugh like that it's such a
pure and beautiful laugh do you guys see
that dude chat and laugh in its face and
when you smile like that you know what
she's gonna do gonna pick it up and
leave no she's gonna smile there it is
beautiful you see that look at that
that's beautiful look at how much
confusing [ __ ] is there you don't even
know what's going on you're like what is
this but but I'm not in that moment I'm
not gonna laughter am i and this
assuming that I even as you say catch it
it's hard like what do you think it's
hard to grasp like there it is
pay attention but in that moment you see
well I don't know what just happened in
your mind but there was something
beautiful and positive and there was
something changed you're a different
slightly different person now and there
comes the thought again like a [ __ ]
boomerang but it's not gonna work dr. K
it's really not gonna work I can't
really do it can i I can't do this there
you see that what do you mean what do
you mean that like catch catch the no
stop for a second listen to what I just
said what did your mind just do Paul I'm
just I'm just asking you how do you do
it okay I'm okay like Han okay you're
asking me to do something I've never
done I think no I'm not asking you to do
something you've never done
catch the hopelessness you said arrived
I'm not asking you to do something
you've never done I'm asking you to do
something that you did for the first
time just now more or less never more or
less than ever and never very big
differences there's a huge difference
between you me telling you to do
something that you've never done before
and something that you've done once and
if you've done it once you can do it
again how did you do it I'm not quite
sure but you've done it once
a couple of times actually it wasn't
just once you did it a couple of times
in a row is like multiple orgasms I
collect it back there's nothing the only
women have it depends on whether you
learn tantric sex is a man no I'm gonna
pretend to know that means but then yeah
conversation I guess day gotta get you a
girlfriend first of all I guess I'm one
of the lucky few men who also know what
that feels like
how you feeling I just I want I wanted
to do what you say I want it to be that
when I go there something is different
and I just have a doubt that it will be
yep let me hear that yeah so so be it so
you're doing a good job so even now
you're doing a better job than you were
at the beginning of the hour because
instead of going and and so at the
beginning of the hour your doubt was
manifesting his resistance to what I was
saying but now already your doubt no
longer manifests as resistance instead
what you say is I have a doubt you've
actually made a huge difference there I
want everyone to see that you guys see
how he's different he used to just block
and be slippery and now he says but dr.
K I have doubt whereas that was the
doubt that was manifesting as evidence
and argument and resistance and now he
sees there as a doubt go back and watch
and you've never said like I mean you
did sort of but it's very different so
do you have work to do absolutely is
this easy absolutely not
can you change absolutely are you
hopeless absolutely not can you do it I
don't know is it possible I don't know
can you do it again yeah
if you can do it once you can do it
again so you tell me how what just
happened what just happened man what was
that like weird laughing crying like
what was that what were you feeling like
what the [ __ ] was that man I don't know
actually I don't know okay I I seems
like real true short-term memory
problems isn't the other no no no it's
it's it's not short-term memory problems
it's just you you have trained yourself
to be unfamiliar with emotions and
you've suppressed them so I've just like
yeah I'm bad with emotions I told you
already I have like I'm a bad memory for
them maybe it doesn't even have to be
long ago like yes sir have you seen any
of our videos about alexithymia no watch
those there on our YouTube channel
they'll give you a little bit but but
here's the thing so I don't know that
you've been so I their hope for you
absolutely man convinced now more than
ever if you can laugh like that if you
can look at your hopelessness in the
face and [ __ ] laugh at it that was
laughing I don't know what you were
laughing at but it was something
beautiful I don't know it was pure why
is it why is it what do you mean though
like why is it beautiful because it was
unburdening it why is it beautiful
actually don't know I don't know it just
was like why is this sunset beautiful I
don't know like I'm pretty sure twitch
at loved it too but partly yes of course
I mean the objective is always to make
the guests like [ __ ] break down isn't
that right makes a good show do you
think that's what the objective is well
right makes a good [ __ ] huh hard to deny
that no I don't think it's about
breaking them down I think it's about
lifting a mop dude this huge difference
yeah there was something kind of um
there was something kind of positive
about it in a weird way yeah so here's
the thing I I don't think I I think
let's just take a break I think this is
I'm gonna give you a chance to ask
questions but I think I know this is
gonna be a little bit unsatisfying but I
think this is good for today right so
you want me to fix everything I can't do
that this is not something I can do
overnight all right I'll get you to your
first breakthrough buddy but I think
what you need to do now is understand
what happened okay
so like I don't know exactly how that's
gonna work I'm gonna have to think about
it a little bit I think maybe what we
need to do is have you come back on
later right so I think that if you want
to work with a therapist again your work
may be different this time because now
you have something to kind of work on
practically what I want you to do and I
know you don't believe this
and it doesn't feel like it but I think
this is enough so as long as you
continue to see your hopelessness and as
long as you can kind of notice it and
laugh in its face as you walk and you
approach women the person that they are
going to see is someone that no women
has ever seen before well it should just
be clear I don't normally walk an
approach with it that's why the speed
dating works is because it forces you to
do that I define so I mean I don't need
you to walk in approached women because
you're a smart guy and you're gonna
figure out the external solutions
you're probably problem is not in
figuring out external solutions like you
said you've already figured it out
you're gonna do speed dating fine my
goal is in unburdening the pawl that
goes up goes its to speed dating and the
first step to that is to recognize that
that hopelessness is there and that you
have doubt that you'll ever be in a
relationship and to just notice notice
notice notice notice
just to notice it doesn't seem like it
doesn't see it doesn't seem I feel like
what you're trying to do by notice is
not what I
it's like it you do you have a different
definition because I must have noticed
it what do you mean no I don't think I
don't think you noticed it so what I
mean yeah you're right I have a
different definition so what I mean is
notice it with distance what distance
between you and the hopelessness instead
of saying I I'll give you an example
okay so what's the difference between I
will be alone for the rest of my life
and I sometimes think I will be alone
for the rest of my life one is an
absolute and one is just a thought
another absolutely so another way to put
it I'm going to be alone for the rest of
my life
my mind believes that I'm going to be
alone for the rest of my life what's the
difference between those two well you're
doing this thing like that you teach in
meditation where it's like well you you
and you and your mind or I don't know
your body in your mind or these are the
like disconnect what about listen to the
statements I will be alone for the rest
of my life my mind believes I will be
alone for the rest of my life you're
right but just look at the statement I
would say this I would say the same
thing again is like you're pretending or
very good that your mind is a different
thing like it's not somehow it's not you
yes so very good one is an absolute
truth and one is a thought so now let me
ask you something Paul when you believe
that you are gonna be alone from the
rest of your life where does that come
from well dude did I believe that that
was it just a thought I don't know if I
really believed it if I truly believed
it why would I even be going to doing
all these things so I I think the
hopelessness is a something if you heard
about some scars if you were like that
so you have a you have a some scar that
you are hopeless and that you will
always be alone so sometimes it
activates and sometimes it doesn't
but when it activates you believe fully
in those moments that you are gonna be
hopeless that you will be alone for the
rest of your life so the first thing to
understand is that the conclusion feels
true to you right like this whole hour
you've been giving me evidence evans
evidence no dr. kay it is true it is
true it is true absolute statements not
thoughts that's not how you treat them
but they are thoughts and thoughts come
from the mind and the mind is not the
knower of truth we treat it like it is
but just think about it for a second the
mind is not infallible on the contrary
it's fallible all the time but when you
- when you believe that to be true it's
your mind that's doing it so create
distance between reality and whatever
the mind wants to do because you've had
these experiences at the age of eight
first job that you got fired by a woman
I'm sure there are other experiences
being rejected by your therapist this
and that all of these things might not
fired by your women find because of
because we're so start by noticing and
what I mean by notice you're absolutely
right may have a different definition so
what that what that definition is is in
those moments when you know something to
be absolutely true take a step back and
recognize that this is my mind that is
telling me this doesn't mean it's true
that is how you notice to create
distance you can also meditate meditate
is the practice of stepping back from
your mind and as you step back from your
mind something like what happened today
will happen again and you will be able
to laugh and you will be able to laugh
beautifully and you will be able to
laugh freely and when you were able to
laugh beautifully in front and freely in
front of a woman she's gonna think
you're a little bit crazy and 99% of
women are gonna think you're a little
bit crazy
1% of them are gonna fall in love
because that's how it works love is
crazy you're gonna feel embarrassed but
one person is gonna like like have you
ever seen just like a woman just
laughing her heart out and it's there's
something even if you know she's nuts
there's something just beautiful about
that right like the laughter of a child
is just beautiful and pure and it's
attractive or even just a smile but yeah
yeah if it's an unburdened smile yeah
and it's been a long time since you've
had an unburdened smile my friend I feel
like you're just guessing that but
that's very true if it's a guess a
little but not what do you all I'm doing
is guessing buddy all I do I don't know
anything man well I know about you
nothing
it's just guessing right okay well it
was good guess
I don't yeah I don't smile that much
yeah
she smiled beautifully today Thanks
that's questions my only thought is like
how am I gonna catch my hopelessness
with practice so meditate
meditation right now because I think
you've been through a lot I don't think
you're in a good frame of mind to learn
is that okay I mean I'm fine now but but
if you know it's okay ya know what what
I want you to just sit with what you've
experienced today and try to process it
while it's fresh in your mind and I have
a I'm concerned that meditation may calm
down sure sure
yeah does that make sense so sometimes
when people have emotional stuff I sort
of recommend that they don't meditate
sure I'll take that under advisement
you're the expert on that yeah but I
think you know you could have you done
alternate nostril breathing before no
I've watched it I don't think I I guess
I approach with a bit of skepticism so I
don't always follow along with that part
okay so I want you to understand this
about meditation so you don't you don't
have to believe in it it's not about
skepticism so like if I'm skeptical that
exercising will cause me to lose weight
do I need to believe that huh so he's
just doing it as sufficient you don't
have to absolutely think just do it okay
yeah what makes it easier yeah you don't
have to believe in it it's just gonna do
what its gonna do okay nice right I like
that yeah it's like I'm skeptical that
this water will produce urine you just
drink the water your body will yeah okay
all right man strong work
Browdy thanks doc okay you have a little
bit of a long road ahead but I think you
can walk it okay just sit with this
we'll we'll do round two later okay
all right and I look forward to that
yeah yeah take care of man good luck
thanks Jase bye bye okay twitch at
okay so yeah so like things can feel
pretty circular but that's okay right so
we just got to keep at it so I want you
guys to understand you know for
yourselves as well like don't give up on
yourself right like just don't give up
on yourself and yeah just don't just
don't give up I don't know what else to
say like I don't have any other like
wise words for you guys and just
understand that that life is not about
like so we get so concerned about
outcomes right we get so concerned about
failure we get concerned like heat like
so he tries to ask out women it doesn't
work and then you start to like concern
yourself with failure and then you start
to believe things about the future life
is not about the future it's about the
present like action happens in the
present and you can't predict the future
so take the actions that you want to in
the moment and stay true to what your
goal is our goal there was not to make
him break down our goal there was to
help him as much as we can and if he has
a pearl of wisdom fine
if he doesn't have a pearl wisdom that's
okay we're just gonna try our best
you don't shoot for a particular target
and he says oh you know you want to
break people down because that's good
television sure it's good television but
that's not worry to here for we're not
there yeah it's not what were there for
certainly not to break up them down
sometimes does emotional expression do
people resonate with that yeah but I
don't think it's like it's not good
television when you see something
authentic and change in another person
that's like the reason we go for that is
because that's like the crit heal you
guys get that that's the [ __ ] heal for a
Oh a healing that's the crit you want a
fatty crit man need a crit heal so just
try to focus on what you need to be
doing and focus lay and just keep doing
so I'll leave this with you guys okay so
understand that gutter ball gutter ma
means action and gaddama has a fart
which means fruit so generally speaking
there's actions we take in the fruits of
our actions right there's like studying
for a test and
getting an A our society is overly
concerned with the fruit of our action
we're concerned with the outcome we're
concerned with quarterly reports we're
concerned with what the stock market is
doing we're concerned with the outcome
we don't care about the action we care
about the outcome if you give the people
the option to cheat they will if you
give them do you want to work your whole
life or you want to win the lottery
people say I want to win the lottery
like I'd fall into that camp - we all
care about the outcome we don't focus on
the action wrong way to live life focus
on the action it's not about getting an
a it's about studying as hard as you can
it's not about losing weight it's about
doing ten push-ups every day it's not
about finding a girlfriend it's about
working on yourself and letting go of
the hopelessness that you feel it's
about improving your own life right
don't focus on finding a girlfriend
focus on you and doing what you want to
that's the goal and the cool thing is
that if we were concerned if guys if I
was really concerned about getting a big
emotional response from Paul I would
have given up a long time ago because it
wasn't happening it's gonna happen like
I can't do that every time it wasn't
happening like it wasn't happening like
we're trying for an hour like nothing
fine but that's not our goal our goal is
not to get him to do that our goal is to
help him meet him wherever he is and try
to move him one step forward so focus on
the action focus on where he is focus on
where you are and focus on what you need
to do today and as long as you do the
right thing today today today today
today today irrespective of what happens
then your life will start to turn around
140 rejections from medical school
before I got in really easy to despair
fine.you despair fine I despaired notice
the desperation the next day apply to a
few more schools the next year apply to
more schools the next year apply to more
schools 140 rejections over the course
of three years people in my family who
cared about me were like you should
think about Plan B man
like you've got a 2.5 GPA like you've
applied to 400 schools
no one has accepted you what do you
think is gonna happen to third time
around I don't know right so thank you
guys very much for coming hopefully that
was helpful to y'all
and let's try to get a real in salon
that guy was too wholesome to be in it
so he was like too good of a person
let's get some real like toxic from
malevolent hatred of the world let's try
to work with that and see if we can help
that person